---
title: 'Isaac Gym for Unitree G1'
date: 2025-11-06
permalink: /posts/2025/11/issacgym/
tags:
  - reinforcement learning
  - humanoids
  - robotics
---

This blog guides through using Issac Gym for training reinforcement learning policies for humanoid robots using Unitree G1.

<a id="repos"></a>
## Repositories

| Name | Description | Download |
|:---|:---|:---|
| **Isaac Gym** | Middleware between physics engine and simulation setup. Simplifies simulation setup. 
| <ol>
  <li>Download the Isaac Gym repository from the <a href="https://developer.nvidia.com/isaac-gym/download">website</a>. Although the documentation mentions using Ubuntu 18/20, Ubuntu 22 works fine.</li>
  <li>Unzip the repo in your workspace</li>
</ol> |
| **rsl_rl** | A fast and simple implementation of learning algorithms for robotics. | Clone https://github.com/leggedrobotics/rsl_rl |
| **unitree_rl_gym** | rsl_rl implementation for Unitree robots | Clone https://github.com/unitreerobotics/unitree_rl_gym |
| **unitree_g1_doors** | My implementation of door env for g1 | Clone https://github.com/kushal-a/g1_doors |

My workspace structure is like this,
  ```
    |
    |-isaacgym
    |-rsl_rl
    |-unitree_rl_gym
    |-unitree_g1_doors
  ```
## Installation
1. Install the base dependencies in a conda environment
  ``` bash
  conda install pytorch==2.3.1 torchvision==0.18.1 torchaudio==2.3.1 pytorch-cuda=12.1 -c pytorch -c nvidia
  ```
2. Go to each of the four repositories and run
   ```bash
   pip install -e .
   ```
   Before installing the `rsl_rl` library, run `git checkout v1.0.2` for gym compatibility.
   Also note that `isaacgym` has to be installed by going in the `isaacgym/python` folder.




You can read more of specific repositories below or [skip](#understand_pkgs).
<a id="understand_pkgs"></a>
## Understand the packages
### Isaac Gym
Isaac Gym is a deprecated Nvidia python package for robot simulation. It uses Nvidia's PhysX physics engine. It is the precursor of Isaac Sim.

[Documentation](https://docs.robotsfan.com/isaacgym)

Isaac Gym allows you to run complex simulations using 1-2 script. Issac Gym can be used for RL policy implementations. We will only be using PhysX physics engine here.

### rsl_rl
This is a python package that wraps Isaac Gym for robot learning applications. It provides package structure instructions and OOP for declaring your own robots, environments, policies etc. for simulation. It further improves accessibility to training for legged robots. 

The package has 2 core classes: `Task` and `Cfg`. The Task class has methods that can setup simulation, viewer, safely start and stop training and playback. `Cfg` is a configuration class used to describe lengthy configurations.

These classes are further specialized for legged robots with the `LeggedRobot`, `LeggedRobotCfg` and `LeggedRobotCfgPPO` classes. They are child classes of `Task` and `Cfg` respectively. These classes provide torque, position, velocity control utils for controlling legged robots. They use base linear and angular velocity to teach legged robots how to walk.

A collection of a robot instance, env_cfg instance, and train_cfg instance defines one complete training set. Such collections are "registered" with a common `task_registry`. You can call registered tasks from the task registry directly from the command line. You can use various combination of these three instance to change robots/environments/training etc. 

### unitree_rl_gym
This package implements the above functionality for Unitree robots for walking task. This is a wrapper around the rsl_rl package.


### unitree_g1_doors
This package implements the above functionality for Unitree g1 robot for door opening task. For our project, this is a wrapper around the rsl_rl package.


## Nomenclature
### Isaac Gym
- Environment - One exclusive space. Usually, one environment is used with one instance of a robot. Each simulation can have multiple environments
- Actors - Actors are instances of assets (objects) in an environment.
- Domain Randomizations - Randomizing properties of actors for each environment in a simulation
### rsl_rl
- PPO - RL training policy commonly used in robotics.
- BC - behavior cloning policy used as teacher-student distillation model for policy training

## Build your own task
Coming Soon...

------
